README.md, before:

# HowDoTheHorsiesMove
Minichess software with different players, designed to connect to minichess server https://github.com/BartMassey/IMCS

more information on minichess and the rules can be found here: http://wiki.cs.pdx.edu/minichess/

currently supports several players including, random, negamax of arbitrary depth (0 depth is a simple heuristic player) with support for alpha-beta pruning, as well as a timed iterativly deepening player that also uses negamax with alpha-beta. most options are set at launch via flags, the available flags are as follow:

  -s <SERVER> <PORT>
  
	set the server and port to connect to for netowrked games. defaulted to current live server.
	
  -u <USERNAME>
  
	sets username to use for login. must be registered on the server before use. default is currently mine during devlopment.
	
  -p <PASSWORD>
  
	password to use for login. you can't have mine, get your own.
	
  -t <PLAYER_TYPE>
  
	sets the type of player to use. this value is used for online games, and is also the type of player 1 in local games.
	available player types are:
		0: time limited, iterative deepening, alpha-beta negamax player (currently hard-coded to 5 minutes provided as default on the server.)
		1: fixed depth, alpha-beta negamax player. depth can be set via -d and -f flags found below, default is 6.
		2: fixed depth, negamax player using only win pruning. depth as above.
		3: random player. selects a random move from all available.
	
  -2 <PLAYER2_TYPE>
  
	sets the game to a local match between to players without connecting to a server. any server related values will be ignored if this is set.
	also accepts the type of player that player 2 will be. see above for selection.
	
  -w
  
	sets player 1 to be the white player and player 2 to be the black player.
	
  -b
  
	opposite of above, sets player 1 to black and player 2 to white.
	
  -a <GAME_ID>
  
	accepts the given game ID. player side will be set automatically as needed.
  
  -o
  
	offers a game on the sever. this is the default behavior. desired color can be set by -b and -w flags found above. if not set, game will be offered as either color.
	
  -d <WHITE_DEPTH>
  
	sets the desired depth for the white palyer if they are using a fixed depth type player, ignored otherwise.
	note: this is NOT for player 1, but for the white player, whichever that is. if -f is not used, this sets the depth for both players. 
	default is 6; >10 is not advised for any player, and lower is reccomended without alpha-beta.
	
  -f <BLACK_DEPTH>
  
	sets the depth for the black player. if this flag is not used, the value will match that of the white player. see -d for more.
	
  -h
  
    sets the iterative player to use the transposition table
    
  -:
  
    sets the time in seconds available to each player; only used by iterative player

Commit message:

optomizations, added aging to ttable
ttable entries now age as they are collided with to eventually remove
stale entries that were very valuable(large subtree), this is especially
valuable after lots of piece captures.

README.md, after:

# HowDoTheHorsiesMove
Minichess software with different players, designed to connect to minichess server https://github.com/BartMassey/IMCS

more information on minichess and the rules can be found here: http://wiki.cs.pdx.edu/minichess/

currently supports several players including, random, negamax of arbitrary depth (0 depth is a simple heuristic player) with support for alpha-beta pruning, as well as a timed iterativly deepening player that also uses negamax with alpha-beta. most options are set at launch via flags, the available flags are as follow:

  -s < SERVER > < PORT >
  
	set the server and port to connect to for netowrked games. defaulted to current live server.
	
  -u < USERNAME >
  
	sets username to use for login. must be registered on the server before use. default is currently mine during devlopment.
	
  -p < PASSWORD >
  
	password to use for login. you can't have mine, get your own.
	
  -t < PLAYER_TYPE >
  
	sets the type of player to use. this value is used for online games, and is also the type of player 1 in local games.
	available player types are:
		0: time limited, iterative deepening, alpha-beta negamax player (currently hard-coded to 5 minutes provided as default on the server.)
		1: fixed depth, alpha-beta negamax player. depth can be set via -d and -f flags found below, default is 6.
		2: fixed depth, negamax player using only win pruning. depth as above.
		3: random player. selects a random move from all available.
	
  -2 < PLAYER2_TYPE >
  
	sets the game to a local match between to players without connecting to a server. any server related values will be ignored if this is set.
	also accepts the type of player that player 2 will be. see above for selection.
	
  -w
  
	sets player 1 to be the white player and player 2 to be the black player.
	
  -b
  
	opposite of above, sets player 1 to black and player 2 to white.
	
  -a < GAME_ID >
  
	accepts the given game ID. player side will be set automatically as needed.
  
  -o
  
	offers a game on the sever. this is the default behavior. desired color can be set by -b and -w flags found above. if not set, game will be offered as either color.
	
  -d < WHITE_DEPTH >
  
	sets the desired depth for the white palyer if they are using a fixed depth type player, ignored otherwise.
	note: this is NOT for player 1, but for the white player, whichever that is. if -f is not used, this sets the depth for both players. 
	default is 6; >10 is not advised for any player, and lower is reccomended without alpha-beta.
	
  -f < BLACK_DEPTH >
  
	sets the depth for the black player. if this flag is not used, the value will match that of the white player. see -d for more.
	
  -h < TABLE_SIZE >
  
    sets the iterative player to use the transposition table
    <TABLE_SIZE> is the size of the table to use, as a power of 2. (2^<TABLE_SIZE>=table entries)
    ~19 or 20 loosely reccomended, supports sizes from 0 to 32.
    the value will be ignored if a serealized table is found to initialize the table.
    
  -: < TIME >
  
    sets the time in seconds available to each player; only used by iterative player
